1. The reason why the asynchronous nature of javascript can be a pain is because it is difficult to keep track of many things that can be performed at once. Since I am new to javascript, I do not have many examples, but even in this lab, there was a function that had a one second delay for, and that changed up the order of the numbers printed. I can only imagine what it will be like to be juggling dozens of these delay type and interval type of functions to keep track of and deal with all possible outputs. When it comes to the loose typing, sometimes it is easier to see errors when the types are defined since you will have to set breakpoints or add typeof commands in order to see what types you are dealing with, which can be hectic at times. I am personally a fan of Python, so I do not see it as too much of a problem. The web platform aspect of javascript, even though it is one of its defining features, adds extra steps in order to execute code. It is not possible to type pure javascript, click run, and have it execute, at least without Node.js. There at least needs to be some HTML from my understanding to make some content on a webpage to activate the javascript, but I am not sure how the details are since I am still new to this.
2. The asynchronous features of javascript is very important to the web platform since the users have a webpage with many different things going on. Without the asynchronous features, I do not see how the internet could be the way it is today. For example, it is possible to scroll through websites and watch a video on it, or have the time in the corner, and so many different things going on that make websites have so much going on. If everything was one after another, it would not be possible to have all this running smoothly. The loosely typed aspect of javascript makes it easier for beginners to learn, and developers do not have to be as picky about types, which saves time. The programming style like C, C++, or even Java takes some to get used to because it takes a while to understand what every type is and how each of them work, like how floats can be inaccurate. Without needing a specific type for each variable, it is easier to get used to using variables from a beginner's perspective and be able to change a variable's type at a later point in the code.
3. Javascript is an interpreted language, meaning that it runs line by line, as opposed to the whole file being converted to machine code first like compiled languages. The key benefit that I see is that it is possible for there to be an error in the second half of the code, but have the first part run just fine because the code did not reach the error yet. A drawback though is that with a compiled language, it is possible to see all the compiling errors in the file at once, while for interpreted, you need to fix what is near the top first before going down.
4. I believe that the professor is focusing more on vanilla JavaScript because it is useful to know what goes on with the code before having it mostly done for us. It is the same reason why I think we take a glimpse at assembly code in CSE 30. The more we understand what the frameworks run on, the better we can utilize the frameworks when we start using it. The potential drawback is that we start with things that are very basic, so some people might call it "boring", or it can get really complicated quickly after the easy beginning and the students could get confused. I would argue though, that only knowing the framework without the language it is run on is even more confusing though.
5. The way this lab relates to my project is that JavaScript is the very foundation that make CRUD apps work. From what I understand of CSS and HTML, a user cannot create, update, or delete data using these languages. That leaves JavaScript to do the job. I will use this information to better understand how to utilize JavaScript for these tasks, and how to use the asynchronous feature to its fullest.